Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain an action, adventure,
sci-fi film called “Stargate.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In a North African settlement in 8,000 B.C.,
tribespeople are woken up by bright lights
and loud humming.
A spacecraft descends upon them, and they
start running.
A young man sees the craft, and without fear
or hesitation, he walks up to the alien ship,
getting bombarded by bright lights.
It is 1928 in Egypt, and an archeologist arrives
at a dig site with his daughter.
A man welcomes him, excited to show the archeologist
the latest dig find.
They arrive at a circular tablet formation
with hieroglyphs and other strange carvings.
As the men examine the carvings, the archeologist’s
daughter finds a gold necklace with an Egyptian
rune.
Nearby, workers are erecting a massive circular
structure.
The archeologist notes that this is nothing
he has ever seen before.
In the present day, the archeologist’s daughter,
Catherine Langford, is now an older woman
making her way to a scientific gathering.
At this event, Egyptologist and linguist,
Daniel Jackson, presents his claim that the
Egyptian pyramids were built at a much earlier
date than currently accepted.
The audience, finding his theories ridiculous,
leaves one by one.
Outside, Catherine invites Daniel into her
car and offers him a job to decipher ancient
Egyptian hieroglyphs on the circular tablets
her father found.
Catherine tells him that this could be his
chance to prove his theories.
Military personnel arrive at a suburban home
and inform Colonel Jack O’Neill that he
is being reactivated to serve in the army.
Jack cradles a gun and hides it when the soldiers
knock.
The soldiers tell him why they came, and he
stays quiet.
While leaving, one of the men reveals that
Jack had lost his young son to an accidental
gun discharge.
Daniel arrives at a top-secret military installation
and sees the circular stone tablet with hieroglyphs.
He’s informed that the seven center carvings
are yet to be deciphered, and that’s the
reason he’s there.
Daniel then sees a board with hieroglyph translations,
and sees errors.
He immediately goes to corrects everything
and produces a translation about the sun god,
Ra, using a stargate.
One of the scientists informs Daniel that
they have found a significant artifact in
the sands, something dating back 10,000 years,
much more ancient than the Egyptians.
Jack enters and informs everyone that he now
has sole supervision over the entire project.
The scientists are confused, and Catherine
asks the colonel to clarify.
She had the belief that she had complete autonomy
over the project, but Jack informs her that
the higher-ups have changed their minds.
The colonel then adds that his presence is
only required if the project achieves its
goal.
Daniel works on the translation and exhausts
all possible language ciphers he knows but
still can’t come up with a solid translation.
While going for a coffee break, he sees a
star constellation and recognizes that one
of the seven symbols is shaped similarly.
With this discovery, Daniel is called to brief
the military heads.
He presents his findings and shows that six
of the symbols correspond to coordinates for
a location, with the seventh symbol indicating
a place of origin.
One scientist protests, saying the seventh
symbol is not on the device they were experimenting
on.
Daniel asks what device he’s pertaining
to, and they open a wall to show Daniel what
the project has been centered on.
In the next room, the enormous circular hollow
stone found in Egypt has been erected and
attached to the building’s power.
It looks alien in origin and appears to be
some sort of portal doorway.
Catherine tells Daniel that this is the stargate
earlier mentioned in the translation.
Catherine explains that the stargate is made
of a mineral not present on Earth.
A team of scientists inputs the symbols Daniel
had discovered.
Daniel spots the seventh symbol on the device,
and the other scientist concurs.
They place the symbols in, and with each symbol
locking into place, the room hums and shakes.
The scientists lock in the seventh symbol,
and the stargate bursts open.
A portal appears, and everyone is dumbfounded.
They then take a robotic rover equipped with
a camera and send it into stargate.
As the rover enters, it sends a location in
a galaxy on the farthest edges of the known
universe.
The probe then suddenly loses its signal,
but luckily, some footage has been transmitted.
From the robot’s readings, they see that
there is also a stargate on the opposite side
that they assume functions in the same way.
Atmospheric readings also indicate that whatever
planet the rover has been transported to has
the same atmospheric conditions as Earth.
The military considers they may have to abort
as the project’s primary goal is to perform
surveillance.
The team that will perform reconnaissance
must decipher the markings and access the
stargate from the opposite side to get back
home.
With the information they’ve gathered, they’re
uncertain they’ll be able to achieve that.
Daniel immediately speaks up and says he may
be able to help.
The military men take his word and enroll
him on the reconnaissance team.
As Daniel prepares for the trip, Catherine
gives him the necklace she found at the dig
site for good luck.
The scientists turn the stargate on again,
and a group of soldiers enters it one by one.
Daniel is the last to enter and, before he
does so, stares in awe and excitement at what
he’s about to experience.
A new world behind the stargate.
He’ll be part of one of the first humans
ever to enter.
He steps in and is immediately transported
through millions of miles in a matter of seconds.
The team emerges on the other side and gets
to work and surveying the area.
They step out into what appears to be an old
stone temple and see they’re in the middle
of a desert.
They then see a large stone pyramid dwarfing
the temple they exited from.
Jack asks Daniel how long it’d take to get
the stargate working, but Daniel confesses
that he has no idea how to get the machine
to work.
He assumed that the symbols they’d need
for the stargate to work would be readily
available.
Unlike the stargate back on Earth, he still
needs to find the seven symbols required for
a trip home.
One of the soldiers understandably shouts
at Daniel and pushes him, but Jack steps in
and orders the man to set up a base camp.
Inside the temple, Jack initializes some sort
of beeping device with a timer but hides it
immediately when one of the soldiers enters.
Back outside, Daniel fixes his belongings,
and one of the soldiers bullies him, throwing
his luggage out, books spewing out.
Daniel understands their frustration and gathers
his things.
In the distance, he sees some kind of animal
grazing.
He approaches it and tries to pet it.
Luckily for him, the animal is tamed and doesn’t
think of him as a threat.
Jack and two other soldiers see him and call
out to him.
Daniel assures them that the animal is harmless
as it’s got a harness, indicating that it’s
domesticated.
The animal gets startled, and its harness
gets tangled with Daniel’s foot.
It bolts, and Daniel gets dragged.
Jack and the soldiers chase after him, but
the animal runs too fast.
They finally catch up to Daniel, but Jack
spots something over the hill.
The soldiers reposition on top of the hill,
and they’re all shocked to see a sprawling
community of people that look like humans.
From what they can see, the location seems
to look like a mine.
The miners see them, and they all stop.
The group starts approaching the miners, and
one of the miners sees Daniel’s necklace.
He shouts to the other miners, and they all
start bowing to Daniel.
Jack approaches one of the young men, a teenager,
Skaara, and runs to retrieve the village elder.
One of Jack’s men takes a reading of the
rock they’re mining and sees that it consists
of the same material the stargate is made
of.
The village elder, Kasuf, approaches and welcomes
the men.
He offers a drink, and Daniel offers a chocolate
bar in return.
The exchange proves positive, and both parties
are on good terms.
Jack asks Daniel to translate, but Daniel
says he can’t decipher what kind of language
they’re speaking.
He theorizes it could be a variant of the
Egyptian language but is unsure.
Jack then radios to the men back at base camp
and informs them they’ll be staying a little
longer.
The whole mining group then travels to a large
town, almost a city, made entirely of mud
and brick houses.
Daniel and the group are welcomed, greeted
with hospitality, and are treated as guests
of honor.
They arrive at a gathering place, and the
elder reveals an overhanging brass plate with
a symbol.
Daniel identifies it as the symbol for the
Egyptian sun god, Ra, and Jack realizes the
villagers have been welcoming because of the
necklace Daniel is wearing, which has the
same symbol.
An alarm blares, and everyone rushes out.
Jack tries radioing base camp, but a massive
sandstorm overruns the camp.
The city gates are closed, but Jack misunderstands,
thinking the villagers are becoming hostile.
They take several villagers hostage and fire
warning shots.
Skaara tries to calm the soldiers down and
shows Jack the reason they’re closing the
gates.
He sees the approaching sandstorm and orders
his men to stand down.
That evening, the elders and Daniel’s group
gather for a feast.
Jack theorizes that since the villagers could
identify the Egyptian symbol for Ra, then
it would stand to reason that they may know
more Egyptian symbols, specifically the symbols
needed for initiating the stargate.
Daniel approaches Kasuf and tries to communicate
by drawing something in the sand.
Kasuf panics and erases the writing.
He then orders everyone out.
Daniel guesses that writing of any kind must
be forbidden in their culture.
Kasuf then orders the women to take Daniel
away, and they do so, laughing and teasing
Daniel.
They take Daniel to a tent, bathe him, and
groom him.
The women then leave, and a beautiful woman,
Sha'uri, enters.
She then starts undressing, and Daniel understands
what is happening.
This woman has been offered to him as an offering.
He takes Sha'uri out, but Kasuf sees this
and understands this as Daniel rejecting Sha'uri.
He falls to his knees and starts apologizing.
Upon seeing this, Daniel instead thanks Kasuf
for Sha'uri.
The two return inside the tent, and Daniel
shows Sha'uri a drawing of the pyramid.
Sha'uri answers by drawing the symbol for
Earth.
Daniel asks Sha'uri if she’s seen the symbol
somewhere in the city and asks her to take
him there.
Back in the temple, the soldiers have retreated
inside to hide from the sandstorm.
They soon start hearing an ominous humming
sound, and the temple begins vibrating.
Above them, a pyramid-shaped spaceship descends,
landing on the massive pyramid.
The temple trembles violently, and the soldiers
are thrown to the ground.
The ship finally lands, and everything becomes
calm.
The men spread out, sensing something in the
temple.
One by one, the soldiers start getting picked
off by an unseen creature.
They get whacked by a blunt instrument with
some kind of electricity running through it.
One of the soldiers manages to get to a gun,
firing at the creature, but he still gets
bested.
The attacker reveals itself as a human-robot
hybrid with the head of a jackal, emulating
the Egyptian god Anubis.
Back in the village, Jack shows Skaaraa a
metal lighter.
Skaara is astonished by the small device that
can create fire.
The two then share a cigarette, but Skaara
starts coughing, and Jack laughs.
Skaara then comes closer and reaches for Jack’s
rifle, to which Jack immediately swipes his
hand off and shouts at him.
He scolds Skaara, telling him the gun is dangerous.
Skaara runs away, frightened.
Jack is reminded of his son and the fatal
shooting accident.
Meanwhile, Jack and Sha'uri enter a cave with
hieroglyphs Daniel can recognize.
He then uses the inscription to have Sha'uri
teach him the language.
Already learned in the Egyptian language,
Daniel learns quickly.
Jack and the soldiers still can’t establish
communication with the base camp, and Jack
decides to look for Daniel.
He asks Skaara and some of his friends where
Daniel is, and after a few attempts, Skaara
understands Jack.
Skaara takes one of the yaks and has it smell
Daniel’s jacket.
Jack finds Daniel in the cave with Sha'uri,
and Daniel tells him what he’s found out.
From the hieroglyphs, Daniel speaks of a traveler
from distant stars, that being Ra, looking
for a way to escape death.
Ra escaped his dying world and is one of if
not the only remaining descendant of his species.
Ra found Earth, where he encountered early
humans who worshipped him.
He soon realized that a human body would give
him a chance for extended life.
He found a young boy, abducted him, and placed
his mind in the boy’s body.
He then used the stargate to bring thousands
of humans to the current planet as a massive
workforce to mine a mineral.
This mineral has unique properties making
it suitable as a powerful energy source.
A rebellion soon starts on Earth, and Ra’s
forces are quickly overrun.
He escapes to this planet and, to prevent
another uprising, outlaws reading and writing,
making the people forget their history.
In the cave, they find another stone tablet
containing the six symbols required for powering
up the stargate.
Daniel sees that the seventh symbol is missing
and tells them they can’t make the stargate
work without it.
By dawn, the group decides to return to base
camp.
A group of boys led by Skaara follows closely.
The group arrives at base camp, seeing the
massive spaceship.
They rush into the temple and see signs of
a battle.
They notice something stalking them, and they
all hide.
Anubis once again quickly picks them off one
by one.
He fires his staff, and an electrical force
throws back anyone who gets hit.
Soon, only Jack and Daniel remain.
They head to the lower section where the stargate
is located, and Jack opens the container where
he hid the device earlier.
He’s surprised to see that Ra had taken
the device.
Metallic rings descend from the ceiling, and
another human-robot hybrid teleports inside
them, this time in the form of Horus.
Two other guards flank him, and Jack and Daniel
surrender.
Anubis and Horus take Jack and Daniel to Ra’s
throne room and force the two to kneel.
Ra appears before all of them, followed by
a posse of young boys kept as slaves.
Ra shows Jack the device, and Ra says that
they had brought the device to destroy him.
Daniel identifies it as a bomb and questions
Jack’s true objectives on the mission.
Ra orders Anubis and Horus to show themselves,
and it’s revealed that the two are humans.
Ra also takes off his mask and appears as
the young boy in the story from the hieroglyphs.
Jack takes the opportunity and steals one
of the gods’ weapons, and shoots them.
Daniel tries to stop the fighting but gets
shot, ending up with a hole through his body.
Jack aims the weapon at Ra, but the children
surround Ra, and Jack hesitates.
Jack gets disarmed and beaten, but Ra orders
his men to stop.
Ra sees Daniel’s necklace and examines it.
Jack then gets dumped into a jail cell with
his men.
Outside the ship, Skaara sees two aircraft
launching from the spaceship, heading for
the town.
Kasuf sees the ships and orders everyone to
take cover.
The ships rain fire upon the townspeople,
punishing them for blasphemy.
Horus and Anubis spare no one, firing on men,
women, children, and the elderly.
Skaara runs back to the town and sees the
devastation.
Kasuf tells Skaara that entertaining Daniel
and the men had been a mistake.
In the ship, Daniel wakes up in Ra’s regeneration
pod.
The same pod Ra uses to maintain his immortality.
Daniel sees that the hole on his stomach has
healed entirely and heads out, seeing Ra being
dressed.
Daniel tells Ra that he knows he had died
earlier when he got shot.
Ra tells him that the human body’s ease
of repair is the reason why he chose a human
to be his host body.
Ra then reveals he intends to send back the
bomb to Earth, along with a shipment of the
mineral, which would multiply the bomb’s
destructive power.
Ra adds that he created human civilization,
and it would be a fitting end if he’d be
the one to destroy it.
Ra tells Daniel that Jack and his men would
be an example of anyone who wants to defy
his rule.
Ra orders Daniel to kill Jack and the soldiers
in front of the entire town.
Ra is concerned that the inhabitants of the
planet might start seeing Daniel as another
god figure to praise, and tells him there’s
only one true god on that planet.
Ra yanks the necklace off of Daniel and threatens
him that if he doesn’t kill Jack and the
men, then Ra would kill him.
In the town, Sha'uri tells Skaara and the
boys the true history of their people and
their origin.
The following day, everyone is gathered to
witness Daniel killing the soldiers, but Skaara
reveals that he and the other boys are ready
to fight back.
Seeing this, Daniel turns and fires at Ra.
A firefight breaks loose, and the crowd disperses.
Everyone later regroups at a hidden location
and gathers around a bonfire.
Jack reveals that his primary mission objective
is to identify any potential threats on the
other side of the stargate.
If a danger exists, he will destroy the stargate
using the bomb to prevent an invasion on Earth.
Later, Daniel sees Sha’uri, and she tells
him she’s okay with being rejected.
Upon hearing this, Daniel kisses Sha’uri.
Sha’uri then sketches something on the wall.
Daniel discovers that this could be the seventh
symbol they need to access stargate.
That afternoon in the mines, they ambush Horus
and disable him.
Kasuf tries to stop the rebellion, telling
them the gods would punish them, but Daniel
reveals to everyone that the gods are mere
humans who possess advanced technology.
Ra orders guards to send the bomb to Earth,
but Skaara and the boys intercept them.
The guards check them one by one, and Jack
reveals himself, shooting the guards.
Another firefight ensues, and casualties fall
on both sides.
Jack, Daniel, and Sha’uri get trapped inside.
The rest of the rebels are stuck outside,
left to face the aircrafts raining fire on
them.
Jack finds the bomb and activates the timer,
deciding to remain on the planet to destroy
the stargate as the team returns to Earth.
A guard appears behind them and shoots Sha’uri
dead.
Jack kills the guard, but Anubis appears via
the teleportation rings.
Daniel takes Sha’uri to the regeneration
pod.
Jack is left alone to face Anubis, and they
exchange blows, the two fairly matched.
Outside, the soldiers and the boys are trying
their best to battle the aircraft but soon
run out of ammo.
One of the soldiers decides to surrender and
orders everyone to do the same.
The aircrafts land and the pilots approach
them.
Daniel succeeds in healing Sha’uri, taking
her out of the chamber and bringing her back
to the teleportation machine.
Ra sees them and catches Daniel before he
teleports.
Ra grabs Daniel’s head and uses alien powers
to melt Daniel’s brain.
In the stargate room, Jack somehow gets the
upper hand and pins Anubis to the floor.
He activates the teleportation rings, and
the rings descend on Anubis’ head.
At the same time, the rings activate on Daniel
and Ra’s side, distracting Ra, making him
let go of Daniel.
Daniel is quick to grab the necklace back.
He and Sha’uri teleport back, and Anubis’
head appears in front of Ra.
The pilots are about to execute Skaara, the
boys, and the soldiers, but Kasuf appears
with the entire townspeople rallying behind
him.
They all charge the pilots and quickly overwhelm
them.
Seeing this, Ra decides to relaunch his ship.
Ra leaves, and Jack no longer needs the bomb.
But Jack discovers that he can’t stop the
timer anymore.
With seconds left on the clock, they decide
to send the bomb to Ra’s ship using the
teleportation rings.
As Ra’s ship exits the planet’s atmosphere,
the bomb appears in front of Ra, and he’s
astonished to see it.
Ra freezes, unable to react to the bomb as
it explodes.
The ship explodes with an incredible amount
of force, and everyone back on the surface
cheers.
The team then prepares to return to Earth.
Daniel decides he wants to remain on the planet,
starting a new life with his newly beloved
Sha’uri.
He gives the necklace back to Jack before
he steps into the void beyond the stargate.